# Models - Source Code
The file links below will display source code, outputs, and reports for each of the Public School example models in any web browser.  You may also download the files and modify / run them using Python, Pandas, Numpy, Scikit Learn, and iPython Notebook.  Each file link contains detailed documentation on the code and transformations used to create a particular set of models.     

**Click on each of the notebook names below to preview the code using the [Nbviewer](nbviewer.jupyter.org).**

* [**2017AvgSATScores.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017AvgSATScores.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate regression models for predicting average SAT scores at public high school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important attributes for predicting average SAT scores.  
* [**2017GraduationRates4yr.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017GraduationRates4yr.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate regression models for predicting 4 year graduation rates at public high school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important model attributes. 
* [**2017GraduationRates5yr.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017GraduationRates5yr.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate regression models for predicting 5 year graduation rates at public high school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important model attributes. 
* [**2017SegregatedElementarySchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017SegregatedElementarySchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for predicting highly minority segregated public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important model attributes.
* [**2017SegregatedHighSchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017SegregatedHighSchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for predicting highly minority segregated public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important model attributes.
* [**2017SegregatedMiddleSchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017SegregatedMiddleSchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for predicting highly minority segregated public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determined the most important model attributes.
* [**2017ComparingSegregatedElementarySchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017ComparingSegregatedElementarySchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determine the most important model attributes.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools.
* [**2017ComparingSegregatedMiddleSchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017ComparingSegregatedMiddleSchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determine the most important model attributes.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools.
* [**2017ComparingSegregatedHighSchoolCampuses.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017ComparingSegregatedHighSchoolCampuses.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate classification models for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis is also performed to determine the most important model attributes.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools.
* [**2017ElementarySchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017ElementarySchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate a classification model for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis from 2014 - 2017 is also performed on the model's top 75 most important features.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools from 2014 - 2017.
* [**2017MiddleSchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017MiddleSchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate a classification model for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis from 2014 - 2017 is also performed on the model's top 75 most important features.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools from 2014 - 2017.
* [**2017HighSchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/2017HighSchoolSegregationTrends.ipynb) - Python code to create and validate a classification model for comparing highly minority and majority segregated (>= 80%) public school campuses.  Feature importance analysis from 2014 - 2017 is also performed on the model's top 75 most important features.  Multiple visualizations highlight the differences between majority and minority segregated schools from 2014 - 2017.
* [**District Level Relationships with Income Tax Data.ipynb**](https://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/2017/Models/District%20Level%20Relationships%20with%20Income%20Tax%20Data.ipynb) - This report uses IRS income tax data summarized by NC school district to explore the relationships between income tax data and various school district statistics.
