# Other Projects
This folder contains previous projects and code examples including various models for predicting graduation rates, average SAT Scores, and highly minority segregated public school campuses.   While we have included the historical machine learning datasets used in these example projects, it is highly reccommended that the school year specific datasets be used for any new projects going forward. 

# iPython Notebooks and Code Examples
You can click on each of the notebook names below to preview the code using the [Nbviewer](nbviewer.jupyter.org).
  ## Dataset Creation Notebooks
   * [**Public Elementary Schools Dataset Expanded  Feb 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Dataset%20Creation/Public%20Elementary%20Schools%20Dataset%20Expanded%20%20Feb%202018.ipynb) - Python code to create the ElementarySchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv dataset.  
   * [**Public High Schools Dataset  Feb 2018.ipynb**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Dataset%20Creation/Public%20High%20Schools%20Dataset%20%20Feb%202018.ipynb) - Python code to create the HighSchoolsML_02_2018.csv dataset.  
   * [**Public High Schools Dataset Expanded  Feb 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Dataset%20Creation/Public%20High%20Schools%20Dataset%20Expanded%20%20Feb%202018.ipynb)  - Python code to create the HighSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv dataset.  
   * [**Public Middle Schools Dataset Expanded  Feb 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Dataset%20Creation/Public%20Middle%20Schools%20Dataset%20Expanded%20%20Feb%202018.ipynb) - Python code to create the MiddleSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv dataset.
  
  ## Machine Learning Notebooks 
  * [**Average SAT Scores February 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Average%20SAT%20Scores%20February%202018.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the average SAT score for public high schools in North Carolina.
  * [**Elementary School Minority Percentage February 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Elementary%20School%20Minority%20Percentage%20February%202018.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the minority racial composition percentage for public elementary schools in North Carolina.
  * [**Graduation Rates February 2018 - 4 Years Expanded.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Graduation%20Rates%20February%202018%20-%204%20Years%20Expanded.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the 4 year graduation rates for public high schools in North Carolina.  Data for this notebook is expanded to consider student body racial compositions. 
  * [**Graduation Rates February 2018 - 5 Years Expanded.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Graduation%20Rates%20February%202018%20-%205%20Years%20Expanded.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the 5 year graduation rates for public high schools in North Carolina.  Data for this notebook is expanded to consider student body racial compositions.   
  * [**Graduation Rates February 2018 - 4 Years.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Graduation%20Rates%20February%202018%20-%204%20Years.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the 4 year graduation rates for public high schools in North Carolina. No student body racial compositions are considered in the training data.    
  * [**Graduation Rates February 2018 - 5 Years.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Graduation%20Rates%20February%202018%20-%205%20Years.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the 4 year graduation rates for public high schools in North Carolina. No student body racial compositions are considered in the training data.   
   * [**Graduation Rates v2.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Graduation%20Rates%20v2.ipynb) - Example iPython Notebook with useful code snippets for merging files, isolating high school campuses, and regressing four-year graduation rate within +-4.22 mean absolute error. This notebook also shows how to create your own custom regressor and create multiple scorer functions using the make_scorer() function.  This allows you to perform cross validation one time with the cross_validate() function and return multiple scoring metrics for evaluation (MAE, MAPE, and RMSE in this case).
   * [**High School Minority Percentage February 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/High%20School%20Minority%20Percentage%20February%202018.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the minority racial composition percentage for public high schools in North Carolina.
   * [**Middle School Minority Percentage February 2018.ipynb**](http://nbviewer.jupyter.org/github/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/iPython%20Notebooks/Machine%20Learning/Middle%20School%20Minority%20Percentage%20February%202018.ipynb) - This notebook explores predicting the minority racial composition percentage for middle schools in North Carolina.

# Machine Learning Dataset and File Descriptions
* [**ElementarySchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20Datasets/ElementarySchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv) - 1291 Public Middle Schools and 136 features prepared for machine learning including racial compositions for each campus.
* [**MiddleSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20Datasets/HighSchoolsML_02_2018.csv) - 535 Public Middle Schools and 128 features prepared for machine learning including racial compositions for each campus.
* [**HighSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20Datasets/HighSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv) - 440 Public High Schools and 140 features prepared for machine learning including racial compositions for each campus.
* [**HighSchoolsML_02_2018.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Machine%20Learning%20Datasets/MiddleSchoolsML_02_2018_Expanded.csv) - 440 Public High Schools and 128 features prepared for machine learning.  

# Raw Dataset and File Descriptions
* [**All_Data_By_School_Final.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/All_Data_By_School_Final.csv) - 2575 records, 293 fields - One record for each active public school in the State of North Carolina.  Features reflect school level attributes.  Data is consolidated from various tables within the NC Statistical Profiles and Report Card Databases.  (See download links below)  The following formula was applied to each cell in Excel to remove masking and clean up this data for processing = TRIM(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(Sheet1!A2,"*","0"),">95","100"),"<5","0"),"<10","5"),"""",""),",",""))  
* [**Ec_Pupils_Expanded (2017 Race Compositions by School).csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/Ec_Pupils_Expanded%20(2017%20Race%20Compositions%20by%20School).csv) - 2447 records, 30 fields, racial composition data for each active public school in the state of North Carolina (minus charter schools and vocational schools).  See Table 11 - A HISTORY OF PUPIL MEMBERSHIP BY RACE below for original links.    
* [**accdrilldwn16_masking_removed.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/accdrilldwn16_masking_removed.csv) - 84950 records, 32 fields -  Percentages of students within each public school by race passing numerous educational attainment performance metrics. (i.e. Graduation Rates, SAT, ACT, End of Year (EOY), and End of Course (EOC) by grade). The following formula was applied to each cell in Excel to clean up this data for processing = TRIM(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(Sheet1!A2,"*","0"),">95","100"),"<5","0"),"<10","5"),"""",""),",","")) 
* [**1516testresults_masking_removed.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/1516testresults_masking_removed.csv) - 39857 records, 12 fields - Percentages of students within each public school passing numerous educational attainment performance metrics broken out in levels 1 - 5.  (i.e. Graduation Rates, SAT, ACT, End of Year (EOY), and End of Course (EOC) by grade). The following formula was applied to each cell in Excel to clean up this data for processing = TRIM(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(SUBSTITUTE(Sheet1!A2,"*","0"),">95","100"),"<5","0"),"<10","5"),"""",""),",","")) 
* [**1516_Test_Scores.xlsx**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/1516_Test_Scores.xlsx) - 2669 records, 73 fields - Percentage of entire student body meeting various subject or test End of Grade (EOG), End of Course (EOC), ACT and Graduation Rate benchmarks.  This data was transformed to one record per school from the accdrilldwn16_masking_removed.csv file. The accdrilldwn16_masking_removed.csv file also contains these same percentages by race.   The following acronyms also help to decipher field meanings: 
  * EOC - End of Course
  * EOG - End of Grade
  * CACR - College and Career Ready  
 * [**1516_Test_Scores.csv**](https://github.com/jakemdrew/EducationDataNC/blob/master/Other%20Projects/Raw%20Datasets/1516_Test_Scores.csv) - A .csv version of 1516_Test_Scores.xlsx.
